{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red2\green87\blue173;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Macintosh BOINCManager Version <VER_NUM> Release Notes\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc
\cf0 http://boinc.berkeley.edu/\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b \cf0 Installing BOINC may take several minutes; please be patient.
\b0 \
\

\b Dual GPU Macbook Pros:
\b0  Some newer Macbook Pros have dual graphics processors, one that is more powerful and another that is more energy-efficient, and they switch between them automatically.  This can cause your screensaver to flash on and off frequently, and can prevent BOINC from detecting the more powerful GPU which is needed to process some applications.  You can force selection either {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://support.apple.com/kb/HT4110"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 permanently}} or temporarily using a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://codykrieger.com/gfxCardStatus/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 third-party utility}}. But be aware that forcing the use of the NVIDIA GPU may cause faster battery drain; this of course is not an issue when running on AC power.\
\

\b Upgrade warning 1: 
\b0 There have been changes to BOINC's internal file formats.   When you upgrade from version 6.12.x or earlier, BOINC will automatically upgrade its files.  However, if for any reason you wish to downgrade again to a version earlier than 6.13.x, you will lose any unreported work.  The project servers will send you the tasks again, but they will be restarted from the beginning.  If you think you might need to revert to an older version of BOINC, you should back up your BOINC Data folder before upgrading.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 If you are upgrading from a version earlier than 6.8.0, you may see a message "Failed to convert file BOINC Manager Preferences to Unicode."  This is due to our addition of full Unicode support to the BOINC Manager.  If you get this message, you may need to readjust your column widths and other BOINC Manager view options, but no other problems will result.  When  you quit BOINC Manager, these settings will be saved in the new Unicode format.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 \
Due to new restrictions imposed by OS 10.6 Snow Leopard, there has been a change in BOINC's security implementation.  Non-administrative users can no longer run BOINC Manager unless they are added to group boinc_master.  As of BOINC 6.8.29 / BOINC 6.10.5, the BOINC installer asks whether or not you wish to allow this.\
\
For more options, please see the BOINC Macintosh administrator tools at:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/Tools_for_Mac_OS_X"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/Tools_for_Mac_OS_X}}\
\
BOINC on the Mac now supports processing with your graphics card, or GPU.  Please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/gpu.php"}}{\fldrslt http://boinc.berkeley.edu/gpu.php}} for more information.   If you have a CUDA-capable NVIDIA GPU and you wish to run CUDA applications, you will need to download and install the CUDA driver and libraries for your system from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html}}.  BOINC 6.13.x also supports openCL applications on NVIDIA and ATI / AMD graphics processors.  OpenCL support is standard as part of Mac OS 10.6 and OS 10.7.\
\
Starting with version 5.5.4, BOINC has featured new, stricter security measures.  See the 
\b Security
\b0  section below for important information.\
\
As of version 6.13.x, BOINC no longer supports PowerPC Macs; it runs natively on Intel Macs and requires Macintosh OS X version 10.4 or greater.  If you wish to run on a PowerPC Mac, please install an earlier version of BOINC.  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b \cf0 Upgrade warning 2: You may lose unreported results
\b0  if you are running on an 
\b Intel Mac
\b0  and upgrading from a version of BOINC earlier than 5.3.21 on an Intel Mac, or if you are transferring BOINC Data from a PowerPC Mac to an Intel Mac, or from an Intel Mac to a PowerPC Mac.  To prevent this, open BOINC Manager's window, select the 
\i Projects
\i0  tab, select each project and  press the 
\i Update
\i0  button.  Then select the 
\i Tasks
\i0  tab and make sure there are no tasks "Ready to report."\
\

\b Setting BOINC as your screen saver:
\b0  This installer adds the BOINC screen saver to your system, and optionally changes your screen saver settings to use the BOINC screen saver.  You can also select BOINC as your screen saver later, using the Screen Saver or Screen Effects panel in the System Preferences (accessible from the Apple menu).  \
\
It may take a minute after the screen saver starts before the science application graphics appear.  \
\
Note: on some versions of the Mac OS, you may not be able to exit the BOINC screen saver by moving the mouse; you may need to press the mouse button or press any key on the keyboard to exit.  \
\

\b Security:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Since version 5.5.4, BOINC Manager for the Macintosh has featured new, stricter security measures.  This additional security helps protect your computer data from potential theft or accidental or malicious damage by limiting BOINC projects' access to your  system and data.  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 The installer sets special permission for the BOINCManager and Client, which allows them to write to the shared BOINC Data regardless of which user is logged in.  If you 
\b copy
\b0  BOINCManager or the BOINC core client without using the installer, it will not run properly.  \
\
However, you can safely 
\b move
\b0  the BOINC Manager within the same disk drive or partition.  If you need multiple copies, run the installer again after moving BOINC Manager; this will create a fresh copy in the 
\b /Applications
\b0  folder.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 BOINC verifies that ownership and permissions are set properly each time it is launched.  It will tell you to re-install BOINC if there is a problem.\
\
The new safeguards use the basic security protections built into UNIX (the base underlying Mac OS X): permissions and ownership.\
\
The administrator (usually the owner) of each computer creates one or more users who can log in, can create private files, and can share other files.  Some of these users are given administrative privileges, some may not have these privileges.\
\
There are also groups, which have one or more users as members.  For example, users with administrative privileges are usually members of the "admin" group.\
\
In addition to these "visible" users and groups, the operating system contains a number of "hidden" users and groups which are used for various purposes.  A person cannot log in as one of these "hidden" users.  \
\
This structure of users and groups is used to provide security by restricting what data and operations each person or application can use.  For example, many files belong to user "system" (also called "root") and group "wheel" so that non-privileged users can't modify them, thus protecting the computer system from accidental or malicious harm.\
\
Starting with version 5.5.4 of the BOINC Manager for the Macintosh, the BOINC installer creates 2 new "hidden" users 
\b boinc_master
\b0  and 
\b boinc_project
\b0 , and two new "hidden" groups, also named 
\b boinc_master
\b0  and 
\b boinc_project
\b0  (unless they were created by a previous installation of BOINC.)\
\
The installer automatically gives administrators (users who are members of the "admin" group) membership in the two new groups, so that they can easily manipulate BOINC files.  The installer asks you if you would like non-admin users to be able to run the BOINC Manager and to have access to these files.  This is particularly useful where many people have access to the computer, as in a school computer lab.\
\
BOINC projects are given permission to access only project files, protecting your computer in the event someone downloads bad software from a bogus project, or in the unlikely case that a legitimate project's server is infiltrated by a cracker.\
\
For technical details of the implementation, please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/trac/wiki/SandboxUser"}}{\fldrslt http://boinc.berkeley.edu/trac/wiki/SandboxUser}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/sandbox.php"}}{\fldrslt http://boinc.berkeley.edu/sandbox.php}}\
\
The installer sets BOINCManager as a Login item for 
\b all
\b0  authorized users, not just the user who ran the installer.  You can add or remove Login Items by using the Accounts Pane in the System Preferences (accessible from the Apple menu).  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b \cf0 Other useful information:
\b0 \
\

\b Troubleshooting tip:
\b0  If you are upgrading from a version of BOINC prior to 5.5.4 and the installer refuses to let you install, trash the file 
\b /Library/Receipts/BOINC.pkg
\b0  and try again.\
\
The installer places two items onto your hard drive: BOINCManager.app in your 
\b /Applications
\b0  folder and BOINCSaver.saver in your 
\b /Library/Screen Savers
\b0  folder.  \
\
The installer creates the BOINC Data folder in your 
\b /Library/Application Support
\b0  folder.  If you have previously been running BOINC in a different folder, copy your data into this folder before running the installer.  \
\
All users who log in on the same Macintosh will share one set of BOINC Data, ensuring that work units are processed in the most timely manner.  \
\
You can move (
\b not
\b0  copy) BOINCManager to any folder you wish on the same disk drive or partition.  If you do so, you will need to update the information in each user's Login Items.  In most cases, the BOINC screen saver should still work properly.  If it does not, move BOINCManager back to the 
\b /Applications
\b0  folder.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 To completely remove (
\b uninstall
\b0 ) BOINC from your Macintosh, run the 
\b Uninstall BOINC
\b0  application which is included with the installer.\
}