{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red217\green11\blue0;\red56\green110\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\csgenericrgb\c85098\c4314\c0;\csgenericrgb\c21961\c43137\c100000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16760\viewh18800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Macintosh World Community Grid Version <VER_NUM> Release Notes\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 http://worldcommunitygrid.org/\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Installing World Community Grid may take several minutes; please be patient.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 World Community Grid is an IBM philanthropic initiative that enables you to use your device to support scientific research. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 BOINC\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone World Community Grid is enabled by the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC) open source distributed computing platform.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cf2 New:\cf0  This version of BOINC restores full support for displaying project screensavers. It also once again enables the BOINC installer to optionally set BOINC as your screensaver, but  only under MacOS 26 or later. Note: due to limitations imposed by MacOS, the BOINC installer will always ask you whether you wish to make BOINC your screensaver even if BOINC is already selected as the screensaver.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 New for Apple Silicon Macs:\cf0  This version of BOINC can run project applications written only for Intel Macs in addition to ones written for Apple Silicon, but only if Apple's Rosetta 2 translation is installed.  (Please do not confuse Apple's Rosetta 2 with the BOINC Rosetta project.) If you have not previously installed Apple's Rosetta 2 translator, the BOINC installer will offer you the option of installing it.\
\
\cf2 New for Mojave\cf0 : If your Mac has more than one user account, each user may see the following dialog upon their first login after you have installed World Community Grid: "World Community Grid_Finish_install" wants to control "System Events...." The World Community Grid installer needs this access to finish adding or removing its login item for each user; please click "OK".\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \ul GPU Processing
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf3 CUDA UPGRADE WARNING\cf0 : Do not upgrade to CUDA 6.5 or later if you have an older NVIDIA GPU with Compute Capability 1.3 or less.  You can check your GPU\'92s Compute Capability at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus"}}{\fldrslt https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus}}. \
\
You can find older CUDA drivers at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html}}. Note: after mounting the downloaded disk image, you may need to control-click on the CUDA installer package to open it.\
\
For more options, please see the BOINC Macintosh administrator tools at:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/Tools_for_MacOS"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/Tools_for_MacOS}}\
\
Processing with your graphics card, or GPU, is supported.  Please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/GPU_computing"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 http://boinc.berkeley.edu/wiki/GPU_computing\cf0 \ulnone  }}for more information.   If you have a CUDA-capable NVIDIA GPU and you wish to run CUDA applications, you will need to download and install the CUDA driver and libraries for your system from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.nvidia.com/object/mac-driver-archive.html}}.  OpenCL applications on NVIDIA and ATI / AMD graphics processors are also supported.  OpenCL support is standard as part of Mac OS 10.6 and later.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Setting World Community Grid as your screen saver:
\f1\b0  This installer adds the World Community Grid screen saver to your system, and optionally changes your screen saver settings to use the World Community Grid screen saver.  You can also select World Community Grid as your screen saver later, using the screen saver settings in the System Preferences (accessible from the Apple menu).  \
\
It may take a minute after the screen saver starts before the science application graphics appear.  \
\
Note: on some versions of the Mac OS, you may not be able to exit the World Community Grid screen saver by moving the trackpad; you may need to press the trackpad or any key on the keyboard to exit.  \
\

\f0\b Security:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-7275\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Security measures are in place to
\fs20  
\fs24 help protect your computer data from potential theft or accidental or malicious damage by limiting World Community Grid\'92s access to your system and data.  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
For more information or technical details of the implementation, please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/BOINC/boinc/wiki/SandboxUser"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/BOINC/boinc/wiki/SandboxUser}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://boinc.berkeley.edu/sandbox.php"}}{\fldrslt http://boinc.berkeley.edu/sandbox.php}}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Automatic start:
\f1\b0 \
\
The installer sets World Community Grid as a Login item for 
\f0\b all
\f1\b0  authorized users, not just the user who ran the installer.  You can add or remove Login Items by using the Users & Groups Pane in the System Preferences (accessible from the Apple menu).  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Other useful information:
\f1\b0 \
\
The installer places two items onto your hard drive: \'93World Community Grid.app\'94 in your 
\f0\b /Applications
\f1\b0  folder and \'93World Community Grid.saver\'94 in your 
\f0\b /Library/Screen Savers
\f1\b0  folder.  \
\
The installer creates the BOINC Data folder in your 
\f0\b /Library/Application Support
\f1\b0  folder.  If you have previously been running World Community Grid in a different folder, copy your data into this folder before running the installer.  \
\
All users who log in on the same Macintosh will share one set of BOINC Data, ensuring that work units are processed in the most timely manner.  \
\
You can move (
\f0\b not
\f1\b0  copy) World Community Grid to any folder you wish on the same disk drive or partition.  If you do so, you will need to update the information in each user's Login Items.  In most cases, the World Community Grid screen saver should still work properly.  If it does not, move World Community Grid back to the 
\f0\b /Applications
\f1\b0  folder.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To completely remove (
\f0\b uninstall
\f1\b0 ) World Community Grid from your Macintosh, run the 
\f0\b Uninstall World Community Grid
\f1\b0  application which is included with the installer in the extras folder.\
}